the task that Ryo is doing right now is
what we call an identity matching to
sample tasks so she's gonna be shown
three objects and she's gonna point at
one of the objects that matches the
object that's shown in the center
and when she does she's rewarded with a
piece of fish now you may be thinking
big deal it's a sea lion that can play
snaps but there's far more to this than
meets the eye we have no way of giving
real verbal instructions so what she's
gonna have to do is figure out the
strategy based on the outcomes of each
of the problems she's being shown so you
saw in the first trial she made a
correct choice now she's being shown the
palm tree with the turtle so she's gonna
have to figure out what the strategy is
is the strategy to pick palm tree on
every trial or is the strategy to match
the two that look the same it's only
through trial and error that Ryo can
work out what is being asked of her
she's tested a strategy here that maybe
palm tree is correct on each trial it
worked once but not the second time
frustrated by the lack of fish she
quickly recomposes herself with a quick
dip in the pool to clear her head now
she knows not to choose the palm tree
each time Ryo considers her strategy and
hops to match the pictures this time she
points to the bulb and is promptly
rewarded with a tasty piece of hair in
her game plan established Ryo completes
the test with flying colors and an ever
expanding belly but what is truly
extraordinary is what's about to happen
next so it's really interesting here on
this trial is we're gonna show Ryo three
objects two of which she's never seen
before that's the British flag but she's
able to use the information that she's
acquired from those previous trials
those rules that she's learned to solve
a brand new problem with the object
she's never seen before
it's only by applying logic that Rio is
able to make the mental leap and workout
did even though she's never seen a Union
Jack before she will get a fish if she
matches them